+++
date = "2017-04-26T22:28:55+10:00"
next = "/intro/4"
prev = "/intro/2"
title = "Graphs"

+++

First things first: what’s a graph and what’s that got to do with databases?  (if you are already comfortable with this, then use the [some menu] to navigate straight to writing queries)

A graph is a way of representing objects, their properties and the interconnections between them.  Many people have heard of friendship graphs, or social network graphs, so let’s start there.  To the right is a simple graph depicting people and their friends.

[a visualisation of a query result … but no query at this point]

The ovals denote people and pets, and the lines denote connections or labelled relationships between them.  Here we can see that Michael has some friends and owns a sheep.

This is just a picture, the graph itself is the objects (the people and pets) and the links between them, it could be represented as a picture, written down as text or stored in a graph database.  Graphs lend themselves so naturally to visualisation that you’ll find yourself thinking in terms of graphs and visualisations of them.

In a graph, the objects or entities (circles in our picture) are called nodes and the relationships (arrows in our picture) are called edges.  Throughout the tutorial you’ll notice that we refer to the nodes representing a person or other thing and the edges between that node and others.

Graphs are a really natural way of representing information, particularly when it comes to relationships and links.  Lots of things lend themselves to representation as a graph, it’s not just social networking.  Other examples include

* Customers and products purchased
* Networks, like computers, roads and telecommunications
* Processes, like business and biological processes
* Events and the causality or other links between them
* Structures of businesses or markets

In fact there are so many things that graphs are good for, that it might be a good idea to store your data in a graph and query it using graph queries, and that leads us to graph databases.


( what about subject predicate object … maybe link to the rdf under the hood here)


