+++
date = "2017-05-15T15:31:59+10:00"
next = "/graphqlsearch/2"
prev = "/graphqlmoredata/2"
title = "Indexes"
weight = 1
course = 5
courseName = "Search"
type = "graphql/schema"
+++

When Dgraph is searching for strings, dates, or other values based on a filter,
it needs an index to make the search efficient. We've already seen examples of
how to specify the indexes in a [schema update](../../graphqlschema/3).

`int`, `float`, `geo` and `date` have default indexes, but `string` has options
of what index types to choose. Multiple indexes can be built for the same
`string` valued predicate.

For `string` the following indexes are available

- `term` for use with filtering by all of terms and any of terms. Generates
  filter inputs `allofterms` and `anyofterms`.
- `exact` for use with inequality — matching whole string. Generates filter
  inputs `lt`, `le`, `eq`, `ge`, `gt`, and `in`.
- `hash` as for `exact` but hashes string - useful with long strings. Generates
  filter inputs `eq` and `in`.
- `fulltext` for full search engine like text search. Generates filter inputs
  `alloftext` and `anyoftext`.
- `regexp` for use with regular expressions searches. Generates filter input
  `regexp`

Multiple indexes are specified as a list passed to the by argument of the
`@search` directive.

Apply the schema mutation to apply the new indexes and types on your database.
It may take a minute for Dgraph to compute these new indexes if working with a
larger data graph. Let the schema push operation run and move on once it's
finished.
