+++
date = "2017-04-27T23:05:47+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/3"
prev = "/graphqlschema/1"
title = "Adding Data - mutating data"
weight = 2
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql"
+++

Now that you have updated the schema in the previous step, you can use the new
*mutations* created by the GraphQL API to add data. Making changes to the graph
stored in a GraphQL dataset is called mutating the data.

If you had a large amount of data to load after updating a GraphQL schema, it
might be better to use the Live Loader and add the data as RDF triples. To see
an example of GraphQL data mapped to RDF triples, see [Intro - Load Data](../../graphqlintro/4)
in the previous lesson.

You may notice if you go much further that you have no defined way to uniquely
identify a company. The best you can do with your current schema is to query for
companies and filter based on their industry, as follows:

```
{
  queryCompany(filter: { industry: { anyofterms: "Machinery Tech" } }) {
    name
    industry
    managers: employees(filter: { has: manages }) {
      id
      name
      employees: manages {
        id
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Because the schema doesn't define a unique identifier for the `Company` type,
Dgraph doesn't generate the `getCompany` query for you. Also, you might notice
that if you try to run the original mutation again to add companies, then
duplicate companies are created, but not duplicate people. This is because
people have `xid` as a unique identifier, but companies don't have a unique
identifier in this schema.

Also without having a unique identifier for each `Company`, you can't
update a `Person` and set their employer to reference a pre-existing Company.
