+++
date = "2017-04-27T23:05:50+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/4"
prev = "/graphqlschema/2"
title = "Node Identifiers"
weight = 3
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql/schema"
+++

In the last lesson, we mentioned that the `Company` type doesn't have a unique
identifier, so you can't run a pre-built `getCompany` query or reference a specific
company uniquely to create edges to pre-existing nodes.

While this statement was true from the GraphQL API perspective, every node does
have a unique identifier (UID) using the ID scalar, even if that identifier is 
not mapped to a field within the GraphQL schema. UIDs prevent any two nodes from
having the same UID, even if they are of different types.

Another change we are making to the schema here is adding a `hash` based search
directive to the Company's name, and expanding the search directive on the
Company's industry to be both `hash`-based and `term`-based.

After pushing this change, any companies queried will then have the `id` field
available for selection which will already be populated with the appropriate
node UID.

**Something to try**: After pushing this schema update, go back to the previous
lesson using the **Back** button to find a query runner, and then try to query
the `Company` type to see ids.

{{% expandable %}}

```
{
  queryCompany {
    id
    name
    industry
    managers: employees(filter: { has: manages }) {
      id
      name
      employees: manages {
        id
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /expandable %}}

**For a bigger challenge**: Go back to the previous lesson for a query runner,
and then try to mutate Alice (`xid`: "alice") and update the `Person` to link to an
existing `Company` as her employer.

{{% expandable %}}

```
mutation {
  updatePerson(input: {
    filter: { xid: { eq: "alice" } }
    set: { employers: [{ id: "<UID here>" }] }
  }) {
    person {
      xid
      name
      employers {
        id
        name
        employees {
          name
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

You might be interested to note that if you use the id of a `Company` with existing
employees, the response to the above mutation will return all of the employees
and not just Alice. {{% /expandable %}}
