+++
date = "2017-04-27T23:05:50+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/5"
prev = "/graphqlschema/3"
title = "Reverse edges"
weight = 4
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql/schema"
+++

In Dgraph, edges are directional. A query can't traverse an edge in reverse.
Fundamentally, there are two options for querying in both directions:

- Add the reverse edge to the schema and then add all the reverse edge data.
- Tell Dgraph to always store the reverse edge using the `@reverse` keyword in
  the DQL schema. (**Not available in the GraphQL schema**)

In the generated GraphQL API, Dgraph provides support for the first option with
easy-to-use directives. Normally a user would have to define two-way edges by
creating two edges for each desired bidirectional edge. In the GraphQL schema, a
user can alternatively provide the `@hasInverse` directive and the generated 
GraphQL API will ensure that all relationships created or removed from within 
the API are balanced. This directive only needs to be applied to one end of the
two-way relationship, but it helps schema readability if this directive is applied
on both ends of the relationship. `@hasInverse` does the same thing whether it
is applied on one side, the other side, or both sides of the two-way edge
relationship.

You have already seen this directive in action. In the schema provided in the
previous lessons, you applied this `@hasInverse` directive between the following
relationships:

- `Person.friends` <-> `Person.friends`
- `Person.ownsPets` <-> `Animal.owner`
- `Person.employers` <-> `Company.employees`
- `Person.manages` <-> `Person.manager`

When applying the `@hasInverse` directive, it is required to define the field on
the opposite side of the edge.

Here is an example of an very simple schema that uses the `@hasInverse`
directive to create a bidirectional edge between `Person.employers` and 
`Company.employees`:

```
type Company {
  employees: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "employers")
}
type Person {
  employers: [Company]
}
```

You can define a variety of different types of relationships between types in 
your schema using bidirectional edges: one-to-one (`1:1`), one-to-many (`1:n`), and
many-to-many (`n:n`). 

To define a `1:1` relationship, do not include the list brackets on either side
of the relationship. This will ensure that one node only ever points to at most 
one node on the opposite side of the edge.

```
type Person {
  office: Office
}
type Office {
  person: Person @hasInverse(field: "office")
}
```

To define a one-to-many (`1:n`) relationship, wrap the "many" side of the
relationship in a list. The following example shows that an `Office` belongs to
one `Company`, but a single Company can have many offices.

```
type Company {
  offices: [Office] @hasInverse(field: "company")
}
type Office {
  company: Company
}
```

To define a many-to-many (`n:n`) relationship, wrap both sides of the relationship
in a list. The following examples shows that a `Person` has many roles, and a `Role`
can belong to many different people.

```
type Person {
  roles: [Role]
}
type Role {
  people: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "roles")
}
```

One-to-one and many-to-many relationships can point to the same edge of another
node. You saw an example of this previously in our social graph schema example,
where a `Person` can have multiple friends:

```
type Person {
  friends: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "friends")
}
```

You can iterate on your existing schema to add or remove these bidirectional
edges. If you remove one edge or side from a two-way relationship, all of the
functionality and data will remain for the single-edge relationship.

Even though the GraphQL API will keep edges with `@hasInverse` directives
balanced, it is possible that the edges will fall out-of-sync when you iterate
your schema or bypass the GraphQL API to access other Dgraph endpoints. A community member has posted
[a script that you can run to repair unbalanced inverse relationships](https://discuss.dgraph.io/t/fixing-inverse-relationships/12888).

**Something to try**: Add a relationship from a `Company` to their mascot `Animal`, and
add the inverse relationship from the `Animal` to the companies that it
represents.

{{% expandable %}}

```
type Company {
  ...
  mascot: Animal @hasInverse(field: "represents") # hasInverse is only required on one of these edges
}
type Animal {
  ...
  represents: [Company] @hasInverse(field: "mascot") # hasInverse is only required on one of these edges
}
```

{{% /expandable %}}
