+++
date = "2017-04-27T23:05:50+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/6"
prev = "/graphqlschema/3"
title = "Reverse edges"
weight = 5
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql/schema"
+++

In Dgraph, edges are directional. A query can't traverse an edge in reverse.
Fundamentally there are two options for querying in both directions:

- Add the reverse edge to the schema and add all the reverse edge data.
- Tell Dgraph to always store the reverse edge using the `@reverse` keyword in
  the DQL schema. (**Not available in the GraphQL schema**)

In the generated GraphQL API, Dgraph has engineered the first option with
easy-to-use directives. Normally a user would have to define two-way edges by
creating 2 edges. In the GraphQL schema, a user can alternatively provide the
`@hasInverse` directive and the API will ensure that all relationships created
or removed from within the API are balanced. This directive only needs to be
applied to one end of the two-way relationship. Often times it helps schema
readability if this directive is applied on both ends of the relationship. The
directive does the same thing whether it is applied on one side, the other side,
or both sides of the two-way edge relationship.

You have already seen this directive in action. In the schema provided in the
previous lessons, we have applied this `@hasInverse` directive between the
following relationships:

- `Person.friends` <-> `Person.friends`
- `Person.ownsPets` <-> `Animal.owner`
- `Person.employers` <-> `Company.employees`
- `Person.manages` <-> `Person.manager`

When applying the `@hasInverse` directive, it is required to define the field on
the opposite side of the edge.

Here is an example again for a refresher:

```
type Company {
  employees: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "employers")
}
type Person {
  employers: [Company]
}
```

Relationships can be made that are one to one, `1:1`, one to many, `1:n`, or
many to many, `n:n`. To make a `1:1` relationship, do not include the list
brackets on either side of the relationship. This will ensure that one node only
ever points to at most one node on the opposite side of the edge.

```
type Person {
  office: Office
}
type Office {
  person: Person @hasInverse(field: "office")
}
```

One to Many relationships, `1:n`, are created by wrapping the many side of the
relationship in a list. The following example shows that an Office belongs to
one Company, but a single Company can have many offices.

```
type Company {
  offices: [Office] @hasInverse(field: "company")
}
type Office {
  company: Company
}
```

Many to Many relationships, `n:n`, are created by wrapping both sides of the
relationship in a list. The following examples shows that a Person has many
Roles, and a Role can belong to many People.

```
type Person {
  roles: [Role]
}
type Role {
  people: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "roles")
}
```

Many to many and one to one relationships can point to the same edge of another
node. We exemplified this early on with our social graph example where a Person
can have multiple friends.

```
type Person {
  friends: [Person] @hasInverse(field: "friends")
}
```

It is possible to iterate upon your schema and add or remove these 2-way
relationships. If one edge of a 2-way relationship is removed, all of the
functionality and data will remain for the single edge relationship.

Even though the GraphQL API will keep edges with `@hasInverse` directives
balanced, it is possible, that the edges will fall out of sync upon schema
iteration or if not also properly maintained when bypassing the GraphQL API and
accessed through other endpoints. A community member has posted
[a script that you can run to repair unbalanced inverse relationships](https://discuss.dgraph.io/t/fixing-inverse-relationships/12888).

Something to try : Add a relationship from a Company to their mascot Animal, and
add the inverse relationship from the Animal to the companies that it
represents.

{{% expandable %}}

```
type Company {
  ...
  mascot: Animal @hasInverse(field: "represents") # hasInverse is only required on one of these edges
}
type Animal {
  ...
  represents: [Company] @hasInverse(field: "mascot") # hasInverse is only required on one of these edges
}
```

{{% /expandable %}}
