+++
date = "2017-05-01T10:41:33+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/7"
prev = "/graphqlschema/5"
title = "Exercise: Integrating existing data"
weight = 6
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql"
+++

In previous lessons, you added a new schema and loaded some company data. But,
what about integrating the pre-existing dataset about friends and their pets with
the dataset extension that includes companies?

If we try to reference an existing company in a mutation by name with our current
schema, we will instead create a new `Company` node, as you saw in a previous
lesson. The generated GraphQL API makes it very easy to search for a node to
update, and update the node linking to existing or new nodes.

The example mutation there searches for nodes of type `Person` by their `xid`
and updates those nodes by setting edges to existing people, new people, and a
new company. The update mutation can do bulk update on nodes by widening the filter
parameters.

The returned payload provides the `numUids` field that is a count of how many
nodes were created or updated. The payload also returns the nodes that were
filtered for the update. Field selection on these nodes shows the nodes in their
post-mutation state (after they were updated).

Because nodes can be updated and linked to pre-existing nodes, it is possible to
traverse these pre-existing nodes to find other nodes that were not provided in
the update input.

A mutation can set predicate values in similar fashion as it sets edges.

Something to try. Update the newly created person with `xid` equal to "karl" and
set the age to "42".

{{% notice "note" %}}
Because the UIDs for nodes are generated dynamically by Dgraph, the `id`
fields that expose these UIDs will use different values in each Dgraph backend
instance used for this tutorial. That's why this lesson uses the `xid` field
instead of the `id` field.
{{% /notice %}}

{{% expandable %}}

```
mutation {
  updatePerson(input: {
    filter: {
      # your filter(s) here
      xid: { eq: "karl" }
    }
    set: {
      # edges and predicates to add/update here
      age: 42
    }
  }) {
    numUids #this is the number of new nodes updated or created
    person {
      # field selection here
      xid
      age
    }
  }
}
```

{{% /expandable %}}

**Something to try**: The mutation we provided set Alice as the manager of Frank
and Karl and set Alice's manager as Bob, but it did not link Bob, Frank, or Karl
to the employer "Acme Corp." Update Acme Corp's employees to include Bob, Frank,
and Karl.

{{% expandable %}} Update Acme Corp's employees: mutation { updateCompany(input:
{ filter: { name: { eq: "Acme Corp." } } set: { employees: [ { xid: "bob" } {
xid: "frank" } { xid: "karl" } ] } }) { numUids company { id name employees {
xid name } } } } {{% /expandable %}}

