+++
date = "2017-04-27T23:05:53+10:00"
next = "/graphqlschema/8"
prev = "/graphqlschema/6"
title = "Deleting Data"
weight = 7
course = 3
courseName = "Schema"
type = "graphql"
+++

Dgraph's generated GraphQL API also provides mutations to delete data from the
graph. Data can be deleted in the following ways:

- Update nodes and remove edges
- Update nodes and remove predicate values
- Delete a node with all of its inbound and outbound edges and predicate values.

To remove an edge from a node, we will need to use the same update mutation
pattern we saw in the previous lesson, but instead of using the set argument,
use the remove argument.

This example query removes the manages/manager edges between Alice and Frank

```
mutation {
  updatePerson(input: {
    filter: { xid: { eq: "alice" } }
    remove: { manages: [{ xid: "frank" }] }
  }) {
    person {
      xid
      manages {
        xid
      }
    }
  }
}
```

{{% notice "note" %}} The `update<type>` mutations do allow for setting and
removing multiple edges and values in a single operation. {{% /notice %}}

The example mutation above removes edges between two specific nodes. It is also
possible to remove edges from one node to all other nodes. The following
mutation examples removes all nodes from the manages edge from Alice.

```
mutation {
  updatePerson(input: {
    filter: { xid: { eq: "alice" } }
    remove: { manages: null }
  })
}
```

Dgraph will also keep the deletion of edges balanced when the `hasInverse`
directive is applied, just like it does keeping edges balanced when creating
them.

To delete predicate values, the syntax is very similar to the above. Instead of
listing the edges to remove we can provide the value to remove. If the value is
set to null, then all values will be removed for that predicate.

```
mutation {
  updatePerson(input: {
    filter: { xid: { eq: "alice" } }
    remove: { age: null }
  }) {
    person {
      xid
      age
    }
  }
}
```

To delete a node with all of its predicate values along with the inbound and
outbound edges, we need to use the `delete<type>` mutation.

```
mutation {
  deletePerson(filter: {
    xid: "karl"
  }) {
    person {
      xid
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

The state of the nodes returned is the representation of the node before the
deletion was applied. Having the state of the node prior to deletion can be
helpful to have a list of related nodes that also should be deleted with later
mutations.

{{% notice "note" %}} When a node is deleted from Dgraph, the xid can be reused,
but the GraphQL API will not allow the UID to be reused because all UIDs are set
out of the control to the GraphQL API. It is possible to reuse UIDs if the
GraphQL is bypassed and mutations are made from other endpoints. {{% /notice %}}
