+++
date = "2017-05-01T11:55:43+10:00"
next = "/basic/11"
prev = "/basic/9"
title = "How Dgraph Search Works"
weight = 10


+++

Given what you've seen so far, you've probably already understood this, but it's worth going over.

The graphs in Dgraph can be huge, so starting searching from all nodes isn't efficient.  Dgraph needs a place to start searching, that's the root filter.

The first step Dgraph takes is using the filter functions at the outermost block of the query to find a set of nodes.  In this root filter, we can use `id:` to find nodes directly or `func:` to use the filter functions.  So far we've used `allofterms` for string search in the root filter, but we can also search on other values like dates, numbers, and also filters on `count`.

Dgraph needs to build an index on values that are to be searched in this way because, without an index to make the search efficient, Dgraph would have to trawl through the whole database to find matching values.

From the set of nodes matched in the root filter, Dgraph then follows edges to satisfy the remainder of the query.  The filters on blocks inside the root are only applied to the nodes reached by following listed edges to them.  

Something to try: write a query to find all people who have more than two friends and are between 20 and 30, and filter the friends to make sure they also have more than two friends.

The root `func:` doesn't accept `AND`, `OR` and `NOT`, so the syntax `(func: ...) @filter(... AND ...)` is required when filtering on multiple properties at the root.




{{% expandable %}}
```
{
  lots_of_friends(func: ge(count(friend), 2)) @filter(ge(age, 20) AND le(age, 30)) {
    name
    friend @filter(ge(count(friend), 2)) {
        name
    }
  }
}
```
{{% /expandable %}}
