+++
date = "2017-04-26T22:36:18+10:00"
next = "/graphqlbasic/2"
prev = "/?graphql"
title = "Hello World"
weight = 1
course = 2
courseName = "Basic"
type = "graphql"
+++

{{% notice "note" %}} For the following queries to run, you should have
completed the introduction to setup your backend, define your schema, and insert
the sample data. To learn more, see the [GraphQL tour introduction]({{< relref "intro/1" >}}). {{% /notice %}}

Let’s have a look at a "hello world" query in GraphQL.

Each query has at least one named root function, and query results are labeled
accordingly.

Dgraph generates these functions based on a schema that you provide. In the
[GraphQL tour introduction]({{< relref "intro/1" >}}), we looked at an example
schema that consisted of two types: `Person` and `Animal`. For each type, Dgraph
can generate three GraphQL queries, `get<Type>`, `query<Type>`, and
`aggregate<Type>`. So, from the two types we provided Dgraph generated the
following queries:

- `getPerson`
- `queryPerson`
- `aggregatePerson`
- `getAnimal`
- `queryAnimal`
- `aggregateAnimal`

The `getPerson` and `getAnimal` queries require an input identifying the single
node of that type to return. If you are new to graph databases, think of GraphQL
types as similar to tables, and think of nodes as similar to table rows (or
records). The `queryPerson` and `queryAnimal` queries return all of the nodes of
that type (by default). These queries can be provided inputs to filter, order,
and paginate through query results. The `aggregatePerson` and `aggregateAnimal`
queries return aggregated calculations but do not return the results (nodes)
themselves. The most common use cases for aggregate queries is to count the
number of nodes. Aggregate queries can accept a filter argument to aggregate a
filtered selection of nodes.

Dgraph identifies each node with a unique internal id, its `UID`. This `UID` can
be mapped to a field in the GraphQL schema by using the `ID` scalar. In the
GraphQL schema, Dgraph also provides a mechanism for referencing nodes by
external ids, `XID`. You can map an `XID` to a field in the schema by using the
`@id` directive. In our example schema, we mapped the UID to the `id` field and
the XID to the `xid` field of each type. You do not need to use either of these
to perform `query<Type>` queries, but to use the `get<Type>` queries you will
need to use at least one of these id mechanisms. Because Dgraph maps between
UIDs and XIDs, you can use `get<Type>` queries with either of these identifying
fields.

You select fields for your query by providing a list of desired fields in your
GraphQL query syntax. In our example query, we request the `id`, `xid`, `name`,
and `age` fields. For any field that does not have a set value, `null` is
returned.

Run the query example provided here to see the results returned.

You will see right away that the results are in JSON format and take the same
shape as the query itself.

Something to try: Change the query to select someone else. You can check the
[sample data](../../graphqlintro/4) again.

{{% expandable %}} Find an `xid` in the data, and then try the following:

```
{
  getPerson(xid: "<XID here>") {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

Or, look at the `UID`s in the responses and try the following:

```
{
  getPerson(id: "<UID here>") {
    xid
    name
    age
  }
}
```

Or, try to get an animal instead with the following:

```
{
  getAnimal(xid: "<XID here>") {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

You can edit these queries and try whatever you like. When there are answers
like this, you can copy and paste them into the query panel, and then edit and
run them. {{% /expandable %}}

The tutorial covers connecting the client to the GraphQL API, so just focus on
the query syntax for now.
