+++
date = "2017-05-01T11:55:43+10:00"
next = "/graphqlbasic/12"
prev = "/graphqlbasic/10"
title = "How Dgraph Search Works"
weight = 11
course = 2
type = "graphql"

+++

Given what you've seen so far, you've probably already understood this, but it's
worth going over.

The graphs in Dgraph can be huge, so starting searching from all nodes isn't
always efficient. Dgraph needs a place to start searching, that's the root query
function.

At the root query function, we use `query<type>` or `get<type>` to find an
initial set of nodes. So far we've mainly used the `getPerson` root query
function in our operations, but we can also search through all of the nodes
having the type 'Person' by using `queyPerson`.

Dgraph relies upon the @search directive in the schema to generate filter
arguments and build an index on values that are to be searched, without these
@search directives, Dgraph would not know to generate the filter arguments or
create an index to make the search efficient. Without an index, Dgraph would
have to trawl through all of the nodes of a type to find matching values.

From the set of nodes matched in the root query function, Dgraph then follows
predicates and edges to satisfy the remainder of the query. The filters on
blocks inside the root are only applied to the nodes reached by following listed
edges to them.

In the example we have provided, the query searches for all people in their 30's
and then find their friends that have an `xid` equal to 'bob'. Given our small
dataset and the simple search parameters, it may not be very evident, but if the
dataset was very large we would see the efficiency of only searching for friends
of people in their 30's with a costly search instead of searching for all people
with the same costly search.
