+++
date = "2017-04-26T22:14:20+10:00"
next = "/graphqlintro/3"
prev = "/graphqlintro/1"
title = "Run Dgraph"
weight = 2
iframeURL = "https://cloud.dgraph.io"
+++

You can run an instance of Dgraph on your local supported machine, but to make this tutorial easier to follow along with for all users, we will use Dgraph Cloud.

Dgraph Cloud provides Dgraph database as a managed service, so you can focus on building apps and websites instead of deploying and managing hardware and servers.

Dgraph Cloud offers three service tiers to support your database needs as your database needs grow. For this tutorial, you will use Starter (Free) instance. The Starter instance can be launched for free with a 1 Mb daily data transfer limit. Dgraph Cloud provides additional tiers to provide Dgraph for non-evaluation purposes; to learn more, see the [Dgraph Pricing Page](https://dgraph.io/pricing).

To get started, [Sign Up for Dgraph Cloud](https://cloud.dgraph.io). After you are logged in, you will be prompted to launch a new backend. Select the Starter (Free) instance, and then click **Launch**.

Launching a new backend will take a few minutes to allocate the services and deploy your environment. Once deployed, Dgraph Cloud will provide you with a GraphQL Endpoint URL.

Copy the GraphQL Backend Endpoint URL and paste it below. You will use this GraphQL Endpoint URL for the remainder of this tutorial.

{{% savedinput "Endpoint URL" "graphqlendpoint" %}}https://your-endpoint.location.provider.cloud.dgraph.io/graphql{{% /savedinput %}}

 In the next step of this tour, you will submit a schema to your backend. This tour can automate this process if authorized on your backend with an Admin API Key. To generate this Admin API Key, click on "Settings" on your Dgraph Cloud instance and select the **API Keys** tab. The API Keys page on Dgraph Cloud enables you to create new keys and delete existing keys. Click on **Create New**, and then name the key anything that will help you identify it for later removal, such as 'tutorial'. Ensure that **Admin** is selected for the key type, and then click **Create**. Copy the API Key and paste into the form below:

{{% savedinput "API Key" "apikey" "true" %}}Your Secret Admin API Key Here{{% /savedinput %}}

If you close this window, the endpoint URL and API Key will not be saved for security reasons. We recommend copying the API Key to a safe place for further reference or else you may need to generate a new API key the next time you access the tour. 
