+++
date = "2017-04-27T15:42:54+10:00"
next = "/moredata/2"
prev = "/schema/10"
title = "A bigger dataset"
weight = 1
endpoint = "/alter"
+++

Ok, we are off to a start with Dgraph and GraphQL+-.  Let’s move it up
a few notches.

Dgraph can also do query aggregation, geo-queries, string querying and
more.  But for all that let's move from the small datasets we started
with and try out something bigger, much bigger.

In our github repository you'll find a [dataset about movies, directors
and actors](https://github.com/dgraph-io/tutorial/tree/master/resources/1million.rdf.gz).  



Download it from that link and save into the `~/dgraph` directory or by running the following in a terminal

```
cd ~/dgraph
wget "https://github.com/dgraph-io/tutorial/blob/master/resources/1million.rdf.gz?raw=true" -O 1million.rdf.gz -q
```

Run the schema mutation using the run button and then load the dataset
into Dgraph from the terminal. You may be required to restart the Alpha with `--lru_mb 4096` in order to handle bigger dataset.

```
docker exec -it dgraph dgraph live -f 1million.rdf.gz --alpha localhost:9080 --zero localhost:5080 -c 1
```

There's around one million triples in the dataset.
Dgraph reports back exactly how many triples were loaded and how long
it took.

<!--There are
actors are described in the dataset.-->

It's a big database of movies, but it won’t trouble Dgraph.  It is, however, big enough for us to
use more complex queries.

This dataset is a one million triple subset of a [larger dataset of
movies](https://github.com/dgraph-io/benchmarks/blob/master/data/21million.rdf.gz)
that contains around 230000 actors and around 86000 movies.  We've made a subset to
make it quick to load, while having enough complexity to yield
interesting results.  But, because it's a subset, you might find your
favourite actor isn't there, or that some actors are missing some of
their movies.

Later in the tutorial, you might need to refer back to this page (or
issue a [schema query](../../basic/3)) to check the indexes or schema types.  Remember that
we can't apply functions to edges that aren't indexed, and we'll learn
that some
functions require particular indexes.
